Extension docs (#1255)
duckdb/duckdb-web: docs/extensions/httpfs.md

---
layout: docu
title: httpfs Extension
---

The `httpfs` extension is an autoloadable extension implementing a file system that allows reading remote/writing remote files. For plain HTTP(S), only file reading is supported. For object storage using the S3 API, the `httpfs` extension supports reading/writing/globbing files.

The `httpfs` extension will be, by default, autoloaded on first use of any functionality exposed by this extension.
If you prefer to explicitly install and load this extension, you can always run `INSTALL httpfs` on first use and issue `LOAD httpfs` at the start of every session.

## Running Queries over HTTP(S)

> With the `httpfs` extension, it is possible to directly query files over the HTTP(S) protocol. This currently works for CSV, JSON, and Parquet files, and provides read-only access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the `httpfs` extension, it is possible to directly query files over the HTTP(S) protocol. This works for all files supported by DuckDB or its various extensions, and provides read-only access.
```

Currently the only non-working format are sqlite databases via sqlite_scanner (but PR is up to fix it in sqlite_scanner repo)

```sql

> SELECT * FROM 'https://domain.tld/file.extension';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT * FROM 'https://domain.tld/file.extension';
```
Should this be a real working example?

Reviewer: Also for another day likely.

Author: Eventually, yes :)
